Good afternoon/Hi everyone.

Today, I would like to talk to you about "Why everyone should learn to code?" and not just us, the Computer Science students.
This is based on a TED talk I saw of the same title, given by a Mathematics teacher from Austria, named <NAME>.
I would like to keep my talk short, so I'll jump directly to what he has shared in that talk.

He was working as a Mathematics teacher somewhere in Brazil in 2014 and the Football World Cup was taking place there that year. He was a huge fan of the game and he wanted to see as many games as possible. So, for that he needed tickets and the ticket booking website had a horrible website which was very slow. He was frustrated, and him and his other teacher friends often get out of class and neglect kids, whenever they hear that there are tickets available as they can happen anytime of the day, and if they are late to the website, they will definitely lose the ticket.
He was annoyed with the website. But he clicked the "Inspect" button that you can see in the context menu of browser, he saw that just when the page loads, it has all the information about the available tickets in the response and the page wasn't just showing them until another server call. So, as he saw that the information he wants is just there something striked him. He just need to automate this process so he won't miss classes or the tickets. So, he started Google-ing and searching through forums to find snippets that would hopefully complete his logic when glued together. And after putting in some effort and time into this, he was able to automate the whole process. The script would check if there are tickets, every minute of every day, and notify him if there are any. He stated that he was able to get tickets to 9 games! But most importantly, he learned that the vast amount of information on the Internet can be put to use in a way that’s helpful to him. This recognition that he could create his own solution spurred him on. And with each bit he learned, he started noticing things in his life that he was doing on the computer and that were repetitive. He started getting really frustrated with things that were repetitive, and so he looked for every opportunity he could to automate it.

Where to go for a beer with his friends, which is the best restaurant to go to from the ratings of other people, finding cheap train tickets, finding the best deals in nearby supermarkets. He said he was interested in food, drinks and travel. So, he automated and created scripts for his interests.

The tools he created were not used by a lot of people, but he saw that those improved his quality of life and that they were useful to him. He was able stop a lot of repetitive tasks he was doing and was able to gain more time to spend with his family and friends. While they weren't really easy it was really useful for him to automate these tasks.


I had a very similar beginning like the speaker and I ended up finding issues, and repetitive in the things I use and trying to implement a fix for me, just me.
There are things like this in your life, too. It could be anything. Most likely something that annoys you, and annoying to do. It has to be something that you find interesting and useful. As you write all this code, and learn new things, it becomes something you do for fun, for relaxation or if you're bored. It'll become a creative outlet for you. It is not for attention or revenue, but for fun. So, keep an eye out for a problem that gets you start automating and coding. And I hope that, like me, you end up enjoying it for the enriching creative act it can be.

Thank you.